---
layout: post
title:  "Family Online Safety Institute"
date:   2015-11-28 19:46:27
<!-- categories: conferences recaps -->
featured-icon-url: /assets/posts/11-28-15/icon-sketch-plugin.png
featured-icon-alt: "Sketch Plugin"
comments: false
category: work
permalink: /:categories/:title.html
---

[garth]: 		https://twitter.com/garthdb
[nightscout]: 	http://www.nightscout.info/

::User Experience, Visual Design

<!-- A website redesign for fosi.org that combines industry news, resources, and events with a new platform, Good Digital Parenting. The Family Online Safety Institute is an international, non-profit organization which works to make the online world safer for kids and their families. Our intended audiences were K-12 families, policy-makers, and industry professionals. -->

Project Overview
----------------------------------------------
The <a href="http://www.fosi.org/" target="_blank" class="link--text-in-p">Family Online Safety Institute</a> (FOSI) came to <a href="http://www.isl.co/" target="_blank" class="link--text-in-p">ISL</a> to redesign and rebuild their website. Our mission was twofold —to combine fosi.org and aplaftormforgood.org (now Good Digital Parenting) under one umbrella, and to create a beautiful design and a user friendly experience

The redesign process involved diving deep into Google Analytics, conducting user testing with key audiences, and unifying the two sites through detailed wireframing and design.

Working closely with our client, we successfully created a digital hub for online safety news, research, and events. With a focus on information architecture and design, the project aimed to reorganize content and present it in a digestible, mobile-friendly format.



Information Architecture
----------------------------------------------
The new fosi.org was a challenge due to its wide range of intended audiences. In addition to online safety information for families, the site needed to cater to a variety of individuals from professionals seeking out industry conferences and events to  policy makers that utilize FOSI's many research articles in everyday work.

###Understanding the Audience

####Personas
In order to better understand each type of user, we created five personas to serve as references throughout the design process.

[screenshots of personas - caption: "Meet Name, Name, and Name"]

####User Flows
By working closely with the FOSI team, we were able to ensure that the personas were accurate and helpful. These fictional personas allowed us to create user flows that aided in the identification of discrete goals and actions for each type of user.

[screenshots of user flows here]

###Site Structure
Due to the understanding of our user flows, we reorganized content into three main buckets: family resources (Good Digital Parenting), policy and research, and events. Supporting pages with more information about the institute as a whole finished out the site's new structure. 

[sitemap here]



###Wireframes
Due to some of the functionality we wanted to include in the site, such as a sticky navigation, fixed filters, and are often difficult to describe using static wireframes, we created a set of animated wireframes in order to show off the small details that were to make the site awesome [ this paragraph kind of sucks, rewrite it]

[ video of animated wireframes – vimeo hosted? ]


Visual Design
----------------------------------------------

###Typography
In order to be inviting to parents, yet authoritative and reliable to professionals, I choose a set of mixed organic sans-serif typefaces with more traditional serifed text.

[screenshot of type here]

####Aaux Next

####Minion Pro


#Colors
FOSI's primary green showed through in their organization logo. 

[screenshots of the site]

Creating a Flexible Publishing Platform
----------------------------------------------	
At its core, the new FOSI.org is a publishing platform. From online safety print outs to the latest research on internet privacy, FOSI works to publish educational content that helps families (and the industry at large) learn and grow in the new digital age. 

Both Good Digital Parenting, the branded platform for parents within FOSI.org, and the Policy & Research section of the site required we design and build a flexible system that FOSI employees could update and manage after project handoff. The creation of custom templates, such as a monthly collection of articles and resources, and a robust filtering system gives FOSI a powerful publishing platform that can be easily managed.

[screenshot of monthly series - caption "Monthly Series collections in Good Digital Parenting were one way we customized content delivery"]









